Now that we have a good grasp on TLS,
let's talk about signatures.
I mentioned certificate authorities earlier,
and their job is to sign certificates.
But what does it mean,
and why would anyone want a signed certificate?
When we say someone has signed a document,
we mean that the certificate authority has reviewed
and verified the contents of that document.
The purpose is to have some kind of proof
that document was seen or even created by that entity.
Just like signing your name on a document,
it's legal proof that you saw the document,
a server can do the same thing with a digital signature.
When a server signs a document and encrypts it with a private key,
they give that back as a signed document.
Since only the holder of the private key is able to encrypt documents,
you know the document you received is exactly the same as the one the server sent.
However, documents can become fairly large,
think of DVD images for example,
and encrypting and decrypting takes a long time with asymmetric ciphers.
That's why instead of encrypting the entire document itself,
just the hash of the document is encrypted.
If you want to check if the signature is valid,
you would decrypt the signature and hash
the document yourself to see if those two values match.
This way, we know that the document we received is
exactly the same as when the server sent it.
If the document was changed mid-flight,
the hash will not match the one provided by the server as its signature.
This is called an invalid signature.